Feat/2948  semi automatic docker test (#3678)
tracim/tracim: tools_docker/test_docker/README.md

# Docker Tests

> This is a too to help test docker, for simple case, but also for complicated test.
> This allow:
> - to run automatically tracim, collabora and elasticsearch with by defaut a working case where all features of tracim work (it just need some tweak
> for email and you need to setup resolving using special docker)
> - to test if docker start correctly
> - to test automatically service running in the docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a tool to help test Docker images, for simple cases, but also for complicated tests.
This allows:
- automatically running Tracim with Collabora and Elasticsearch on by default (it just needs some tweaks
for emails and you need to setup resolving using a special Docker image)
- testing if the Docker container correctly starts
- automatically testing services running in the docker container
```
What is resolving?

When talking about Docker, please be clear when speaking about images, containers, etc.

Author: ```suggestion
This is a tool to help test Docker images, for simple cases, but also for complicated tests.
This allows:
- automatically running Tracim with Collabora and Elasticsearch on by default (it just needs some tweaks
for emails and you need to setup dns resolving using a special Docker image)
- testing if the Docker container correctly starts
- automatically testing services running in the docker container
```

resolving is dns resolving of names. This permit to make all work as expected with local dns.

## Prerequisities

> - pip install pytest testinfra python-dotenv
> - build tracim docker image "DOCKER_TRACIM_IMAGE" (see test_config.env)
> - build elasticsearch docker image "DOCKER_ELASTICSEARCH_IMAGE"
> - cp tracim.sample.env tracim.env
> - cp test_config.sample.env test_config.env

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~sh
pip install pytest testinfra python-dotenv
build tracim docker image "DOCKER_TRACIM_IMAGE" (see test_config.env)
build elasticsearch docker image "DOCKER_ELASTICSEARCH_IMAGE"
cp tracim.sample.env tracim.env
cp test_config.sample.env test_config.env
~~~
```
(not sure about the `~~~` syntax, but the 3 backticks don't work inside this suggestion)

Author: these are not shell command but actions to do. You can't just set this to shell script.

for hostname resolving from host, use:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

docker run --name dns_docker_solver --hostname dns.mageddo --restart=unless-stopped -p 5380:5380 \
-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
-v /etc/resolv.conf:/etc/resolv.conf \
defreitas/dns-proxy-server
```
## Automatic testing

> you can now start the test:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tests can now be started:
```

> pytest test_docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~sh
pytest test_docker
~~~
```

Author: done;

> It will check on docker image if all tracim services are correctly running after launching tracim, collabora and elasticsearch
> docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will check in the Docker container if all the Tracim services are correctly running after launching the Tracim, Collabora and ElasticSearch Docker containers
```

## Semi-Manual testing

> Using configurations files and STOP_DOCKER_AT_END=False you can manually test the docker after launching automatic tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using configurations files and `STOP_DOCKER_AT_END=False` you can manually test the docker container after launching automatic tests.
```

> This way you can tried some custom case like using existing data, testing if collabora work, testing if email notification
> and email_reply work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way you can try some custom cases like using existing data or testing whether Collabora works, email notifications and email replies work.
```

> ## configuration file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuration file
```

> There is 2 config file tracim.env and test_config.env.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 2 configuration files: `tracim.env` and `test_config.env`.
```

What do they do?

# Docker Tests

> 

Reviewer 2: Missing information about:
- how to build this image `DOCKER_TRACIM_IMAGE=algoo/tracim:test`
- how to build this image `DOCKER_ELASTICSEARCH_IMAGE=elasticsearch-ingest:latest`
- why use this old version `DOCKER_COLLABORA_IMAGE=collabora/code:4.0.5.2`

Author: i will link to elasticsearch_ingest and tracim image building dock.
The version of collabora was not updated.

Author: 4.0.5.2 is the only collabora version we can see in tracim documentation (it's also visible in setup collabora feature part backend doc), can you propose me a working more up to date version that in can put in documentation ?

Author: edit: version to use is : `collabora/code:4.2.6.2`

Author: done.

This is a tool to help test Docker images, for simple cases, but also for complicated tests.
This allows:

> - automatically running Tracim with Collabora and Elasticsearch on by default (it just needs some tweaks

Reviewer 2: - Collabora ? missing version information (like code, desktop, specific version 4.x.x, etc.) 
- Elasticsearch ? same as above

Author: docker image name for test are configurable through config file. In case be a bit more explicit about this if you wish.

for emails and you need to setup dns resolving using a special Docker image)
- testing if the Docker container correctly starts
- automatically testing services running in the docker container

## Prerequisities

- install some python packages:
`pip install pytest testinfra python-dotenv`
- build tracim docker image `DOCKER_TRACIM_IMAGE` (see test_config.env)
- build elasticsearch docker image `DOCKER_ELASTICSEARCH_IMAGE`
- create tracim env config file from sample:`cp tracim.sample.env tracim.env`
- create docker test config file from sample: `cp test_config.sample.env test_config.env`

for hostname resolving from host, use:

```sh
docker run --name dns_docker_solver --hostname dns.mageddo --restart=unless-stopped -p 5380:5380 \
-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \

> -v /etc/resolv.conf:/etc/resolv.conf \

Reviewer 2: - `--restart=unless-stopped` is it necessary for testing ?
- do you know if some impact exist on host machine (example if you want to no more use dns_docker_solver
~~~
-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
-v /etc/resolv.conf:/etc/resolv.conf \
~~~

Author: >   --restart=unless-stopped is it necessary for testing ?
Not necessary in fact. we can run this with different mecanism, it's just a bit more practical to test with a configuration that doesn't force developer to always rethink about running this or this docker.

> do you know if some impact exist on host machine (example if you want to no more use dns_docker_solver)
- This docker make docker with hostname accessible locally by these hostname, so it can impact other dockers and host machine this way.
- I don't find any unwanted impact, but it effectively change a bit the local machine dns process (this is the goal of this docker)

Note: This is a really useful trick to use domain name in a local environment for docker image. I don't remembers exactly but i do need this to do proper matching between collabora and tracim domain (we do need to setup collabora url from tracim and without this, it's really hard to guess it).
see more info about this here: https://hub.docker.com/r/defreitas/dns-proxy-server

defreitas/dns-proxy-server
```
## Automatic testing

Tests can now be started:

```sh
pytest test_docker
```

It will check in the Docker container if all the Tracim services are correctly running after launching the Tracim, Collabora and ElasticSearch Docker containers

> 

Reviewer 2: Missing information about what is going on when:
- test ok
- test not ok

Error visible directly or in log file ? if I start test with `docker run -d`, where I can seen if its working or not ?

Author: These are standard python test. We do have a python test (like backend test) that run multiple docker and return error in console according to test, i don't adapt more the docker runned but we may want to improve log for manual test error (where error are in tracim docker log file).
